hi my name is Thomas Macaulay I'm second
officer aeryn well the pineapple and
you know fairies my responsibilities
here on the protocol are a navigation
officer
in that role I drive the ship from point
A to point B and also responsible for
the cargo down on the midfield x-mass is
really important part of my job here on
the bridge particularly in terms of
navigation and we use it on a daily
basis as a result of that you have to
have a minimum grade of C at least at
GCSE level in order to gain entry into
the apprenticeship some companies
however require a level maths and there
are even instances of people entering
into the apprenticeship with degree
level months one of the really important
ways that we can use maths on board the
ship is to calculate the distance of the
visible horizon this circle here
represents the earth and this dot here
is the center of the earth
I can then draw on the picture where my
location is and this cross represents
the height of the bridge above the sea I
can then draw two lines from this cross
what
to
and these two lines represent the
visible distance of the horizon and then
label the points a B and C okay I'm
going to draw some more lines on now
first of all I'm going to draw a line
from my position to the center of the
earth and label this point point D this
distance here represents my height of I
which is 39 meters and this distance
here D to the center of the earth which
is the origin represents the radius of
the earth and then going to draw up some
more lines yeah
right here and these two lines also
represent the radius of the planet Earth
okay the sea lines that represent our
visible horizon are actually also what
we call tangents and we know from our
circle theorem that a tangent is always
a 90 degrees at the center of a circle
when it hits the edge of a circle can
therefore say that this point here and
this also this angle here 90 degrees now
the object of the exercise is to
calculate obviously the distance of the
visible horizon to do that I can use
this distance here which I know to be 39
meters and this distance here which is a
fixed and it's the distance from the
center of the earth to the outer edge of
the earth the radius of the earth and
therefore I can use this which is a
right-angled triangle and also
Pythagoras theorem to calculate the
distance a be this distance can vary
considerably depending on the size of
ship here up for example the pride of
all that is a very
be greater than that
smaller vessel such as a yacht